Getting started document with Scalar DB on Cosmos DB (#94)
scalar-labs/scalardb: docs/getting-started-with-cosmosdb.md

## Getting Started with Scalar DB and Cosmos DB

## Overview
This document briefly explains how you can get started a simple electronic money application with scalar DB and Cosmos DB.

## Install prerequisites

> Scalar DB is written in Java and uses Cosmos DB as an underlining storage implementation, so the following software is required to run it.

Reviewer: `so` is not logically connecting the two sentences.
uses Cosmos DB => (so) => JDK, libraries are needed ???

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated.

> uses Cosmos DB => (so) => JDK, libraries are needed ???

Yes
Because scalardb and sample application are written in java.

* [Oracle JDK 8](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html) (OpenJDK 8) or higher
* Other libraries used from the above are automatically installed through gradle

### Cosmos DB setup

> * [Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/introduction)

Reviewer: I think it abuses the bullet points. Please explain.
Specifying the link can't make users understand your intention.

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated.

    * Take a look at [this document](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/create-cosmosdb-resources-portal#create-an-azure-cosmos-db-account) for how to create an Azure Cosmos DB account.
    * Choose API as `Core (SQL)` while creating the cosmos db account.
    * Select `Default consistency` from the left navigation on your Azure Cosmos DB account page, and then change `Consistency Level` from `SESSION` to `STRONG`.

> From here, we assume Oracle JDK 8 is properly installed in your local environment, and Cosmos DB is running in Azure environment.

Reviewer: it's weird to see it here.

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
Document updated.

## Configure the Cosmos DB connection
    
The **scalardb.properties** (docs/getting-started/src/main/resources/scalardb.properties) file holds the configuration for Scalar DB. Basically, Cosmos DB account_uri and primary_key will get from Azure Cosmos DB account.
    
```
# Comma separated contact points
scalar.db.contact_points=<YOUR_ACCOUNT_URI>

# Port number for all the contact points. Default port number for each database is used if empty.
#scalar.db.contact_port=

# Credential information to access the database
scalar.db.username=
scalar.db.password=<YOUR_ACCOUNT_PASSWORD>

# Storage implementation. Either cassandra or cosmos can be set. Default storage is cassandra.
scalar.db.storage=cosmos
```

## Build

Please use [this](getting-started-with-cassandra.md#Build) to create a build.

> ## Set up database schema

Reviewer: I think from here, most of the sentences are copies from the Cassandra doc.
So,  let's remove the redundancy and state only the differences.

Author: I think it is needed here because `Set up database schema` contains changes.
The schema and execution command are different.

Do you expect a single document with both conditions (Cassandra and cosmos db)?

First of all, you need to define how the data will be organized (a.k.a database schema) in the application with Scalar DB database schema.
Here is a database schema for the sample application. For the supported data types, please see [this doc](schema.md) for more details.

```json
{
  "emoney.account": {
    "transaction": false,
    "partition-key": [
      "id"
    ],
    "clustering-key": [],
    "columns": {
      "id": "TEXT",
      "balance": "INT"
    },
    "ru": 400
  }
}
```

Then, download the schema loader that matches with the version you use from [scalardb releases](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/releases), and run the following command to load the schema.

```
$ java -jar scalar-schema-<vesrion>.jar --cosmos -h <YOUR_ACCOUNT_URI> -p <YOUR_ACCOUNT_PASSWORD> -f emoney-storage.json
```

> Please use [this](getting-started-with-cassandra.md#store--retrieve-data-with-storage-service) to check different storage services.

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
The document is slightly updated.

## Getting Started with Scalar DB and Cosmos DB

## Overview

> This document briefly explains how you can get started a simple electronic money application with scalar DB and Cosmos DB.

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
The document updated accordingly.

## Install prerequisites

> Scalar DB and simple electronic money applications are written in Java. Azure Cosmos DB is used for storage implementation. So the following software and Azure Cosmos DB account are required to run it.

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
The document updated accordingly.

* [Oracle JDK 8](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html) (OpenJDK 8) or higher
* Other libraries used from the above are automatically installed through gradle

> ### Cosmos DB setup

Author: Thank you for your suggestion.
The document updated accordingly.

    
```
# Comma separated contact points
scalar.db.contact_points=<YOUR_ACCOUNT_URI>

# Port number for all the contact points. Default port number for each database is used if empty.
#scalar.db.contact_port=

# Credential information to access the database
scalar.db.username=
scalar.db.password=<YOUR_ACCOUNT_PASSWORD>

# Storage implementation. Either cassandra or cosmos can be set. Default storage is cassandra.
scalar.db.storage=cosmos
```

## Build

Please [see](getting-started-with-cassandra.md#Build).

## Set up database schema

First of all, you need to define how the data will be organized (a.k.a database schema) in the application with Scalar DB database schema.
Here is a database schema for the sample application. For the supported data types, please see [this doc](schema.md) for more details.

```json
{
  "emoney.account": {
    "transaction": false,
    "partition-key": [
      "id"
    ],
    "clustering-key": [],
    "columns": {
      "id": "TEXT",
      "balance": "INT"
    },

>     "ru": 400

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.
The document updated accordingly.

> ## Getting Started with Scalar DB on Cosmos DB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Getting Started with Scalar DB on Cosmos DB
```

Author: Thank you for your suggestion.
The document updated accordingly.

## Overview
This document briefly explains how you can get started with Scalar DB on Cosmos DB with a simple electronic money application.

## Install prerequisites

Scalar DB is written in Java. So the following software is required to run it.

* [Oracle JDK 8](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html) (OpenJDK 8) or higher
* Other libraries used from the above are automatically installed through gradle

## Cosmos DB setup

> You also need to configure a Cosmos DB account to get started with Scalar DB on Cosmos DB.

Reviewer 2: I think that you create a Cosmos DB account and configure that in this section.
```suggestion
You also need to set up a Cosmos DB account to get started with Scalar DB on Cosmos DB.
```

Author: Thank you for the suggestion.
Document updated with the suggestion.

> You also need to configure a Cosmos DB account to get started with Scalar DB on Cosmos DB.

Reviewer 2: I think you explain not only the configuration but also the account creation.
```suggestion
You also need to set up a Cosmos DB account to get started with Scalar DB on Cosmos DB.
```

Author: Thank you for the suggestion.
Document updated with the suggestion.

> Scalar DB uses Azure Cosmos DB for storage implementation. So Azure Cosmos DB account also required to run it.

Reviewer: This sentence is pretty weird as an English sentence.

```suggestion
You also need to configure a Cosmos DB account to get started with Scalar DB on Cosmos DB.
```
Please update the sentence to be consistent.

Author: Thank you for your suggestion.
The document updated accordingly.

* [Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/introduction)
    * Select **Azure Cosmos DB** service from the services on Azure web console.
    * Select **Add**

>     * On the Create Azure Cosmos DB Account page, enter the basic settings for the new Azure Cosmos account.

Reviewer: Can you highlight the page name?
Also, is it `Cosmos DB account` or `Cosmos account`? Please make it consistent.

Author: > Can you highlight the page name?

yes.

>  is it Cosmos DB account or Cosmos account? 

Cosmos DB account

The document updated accordingly.

        * Create new or choose the existing **Resource Group**

>         * Enter the cosmos db **Account Name**

Reviewer: `cosmos` or `Cosmos`? Be consistent.

Author: > cosmos or Cosmos? 

Cosmos

The document updated accordingly.

        * Choose **API** as `Core (SQL)`
        * Choose **Location**
        * Select **Review + create**. You can skip the **Network** and **Tags** sections.
        * Review the account settings, and then select **Create**.

>         * Please wait some time for **Azure Cosmos DB** account creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * Wait some time for **Azure Cosmos DB** account creation.
```
Be consistent

Author: Thank you for your suggestion.
The document updated accordingly.

> * [Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/introduction)
>     * Select **Azure Cosmos DB** service from the services on Azure web console.
>     * Select **Add**
>     * On the **Create Azure Cosmos DB Account** page, enter the basic settings for the new **Azure Cosmos DB** account.
>         * Create new or choose the existing **Resource Group**
>         * Enter the Cosmos DB **Account Name**
>         * Choose **API** as `Core (SQL)`
>         * Choose **Location**
>         * Select **Review + create**. You can skip the **Network** and **Tags** sections.
>         * Review the account settings, and then select **Create**.
>         *  Wait some time for **Azure Cosmos DB** account creation.
>     * Select **Go to resource** to go to the Azure Cosmos DB account page.
>     * Select **Default consistency** from the left navigation on your Azure Cosmos DB account page,
>         * Change `Consistency Level` from `SESSION` to `STRONG`.
>         * Select **Save**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section explains how to set up [Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/introduction) with Azure portal.

1. Select **Azure Cosmos DB** service from the services on Azure web console.
1. Select **Add**
1. On the **Create Azure Cosmos DB Account** page, enter the basic settings for the new **Azure Cosmos DB** account.
    * Create new or choose the existing **Resource Group**
    * Enter the Cosmos DB **Account Name**
    * Choose **API** as `Core (SQL)`
    * Choose **Location**
    * Select **Review + create**. You can configure the **Network** and **Tags** sections for your environment.
    * Review the account settings, and then select **Create**.
    *  Wait some time for **Azure Cosmos DB** account creation.
1. Select **Go to resource** to go to the Azure Cosmos DB account page.
1. Select **Default consistency** from the left navigation on your Azure Cosmos DB account page,
    * Change `Consistency Level` from `SESSION` to `STRONG`.
    * Select **Save**
```

Author: Thank you for the suggestion.
Document updated with the suggestion.

        
From here, we assume Oracle JDK 8 is properly installed in your local environment and the Azure Cosmos DB account is properly configured in Azure.

> ## Configure the Cosmos DB connection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure Scalar DB
```
It's configuring Scalar DB...

Author: Thank you for your suggestion.
The document updated accordingly.

> The **scalardb.properties** (getting-started/scalardb.properties) file holds the configuration for Scalar DB. Basically, Cosmos DB account_uri and primary_key will get from Azure Cosmos DB account.

Reviewer: Please check English properly. The sentence `Basically, Cosmos DB account_uri and primary_key will get from Azure Cosmos DB account.` is pretty weird.
```suggestion
The **scalardb.properties** (getting-started/scalardb.properties) file holds the configuration for Scalar DB. You need to update `contact_points` and `password` with your Cosmos DB account URI and the account's password respectively.
```

Author: Sorry for the inconvenience.

Thank you for your suggestion.
The document updated accordingly.

> The **scalardb.properties** (getting-started/scalardb.properties) file holds the configuration for Scalar DB. You need to update `contact_points` and `password` with your Cosmos DB account URI and the account's password respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **scalardb.properties** (getting-started/scalardb.properties) file holds the configuration for Scalar DB. You need to update `contact_points` and `password` with your Cosmos DB account URI and the account's password respectively, and `storage` with `cosmos`.
```

Author: Thank you for the suggestion.
Document updated with the suggestion.

    
```
# Comma separated contact points
scalar.db.contact_points=<YOUR_ACCOUNT_URI>

# Port number for all the contact points. Default port number for each database is used if empty.
#scalar.db.contact_port=

# Credential information to access the database
scalar.db.username=
scalar.db.password=<YOUR_ACCOUNT_PASSWORD>

# Storage implementation. Either cassandra or cosmos can be set. Default storage is cassandra.
scalar.db.storage=cosmos
```

> Please follow [Getting Started with Scalar DB](getting-started-with-scalardb.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please follow [Getting Started with Scalar DB](getting-started-with-scalardb.md) to run the application.
```

* Other libraries used from the above are automatically installed through gradle

## Cosmos DB setup
You also need to set up a Cosmos DB account to get started with Scalar DB on Cosmos DB.

This section explains how to set up [Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/introduction) with Azure portal.

> 1. Select **Azure Cosmos DB** service from the services on Azure web console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select **Azure Cosmos DB** service from the services on Azure portal.
```
